---
slug: hello-2023
title: Welcome AUVC 2023!
authors: msis
tags: [welcome]
---

Hello Adventurers,

We are thrilled to welcome you to the BWSI AUVC 2023 by [blkSAIL](https://www.blksail.ai/) ! You're about to embark on an exciting journey into the world of underwater robotics, an adventure that will introduce you to cutting-edge technology, creative problem solving, and invaluable programming skills.

Over the next four weeks, you'll be diving (metaphorically, of course) into the fascinating realm of underwater robotics. Your curiosity, creativity, and coding skills will be your tools as you learn to program and control off-the-shelf underwater robotic vehicles using Python and C++. Together, we'll navigate the waters of this complex and rewarding field, learning from industry professionals and guest lecturers who are true experts in their domain.

Whether you're already passionate about robotics, interested in marine engineering, or just excited about learning something new, this course will provide you with a hands-on, immersive experience. By the end of the program, you'll be proficient in operating and controlling underwater robots, capable of planning and executing underwater missions, and well-versed in the real-world applications and challenges of underwater robotics.

Your journey will be both challenging and rewarding. Along the way, you'll develop not only technical skills but also critical thinking, teamwork, and problem-solving abilities. These skills will serve you well beyond the confines of this course, in whatever academic or career paths you choose to explore in the future.

Remember, every great journey begins with a single step. Today, you're taking that step. We encourage you to dive in headfirst, ask questions, and make the most of this unique experience. We're excited to see where this underwater adventure will take you!

Stay curious, stay excited, and most importantly, enjoy the journey!

Best,

Mohamed Saad Ibn Seddik, Dr.Eng.

CEO of blkSAIL
